diplomatic efforts are underway to reach
a ceasefire in Gaza with the US
pressuring Hamas to agree to Israel's
terms Secretary of State Anthony blink's
been meeting prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in Israel to push for a deal
he says is achievable blink's also told
Netanyahu the US still opposes a ground
offense of in Rafa and that there needs
to be an improvement in the distribution
of humanitarian Aid into
Gaza we're determined uh to get a
ceasefire that brings the hostages home
and to get it now uh and the only reason
that that wouldn't be achieved is
because of Hamas uh there is a proposal
on the table and as we've said uh no
delays no no excuses uh the time is now
uh and The Time Is Now long past due to
bring the hostages home to their
families uh at the same time even as
we're working uh with Relentless
determination to get the ceasefire that
brings the hostages home uh we also have
to be focused on uh people in Gaza who
suffering in this Crossfire of Hamas
makan going to get more with our
correspondent in occupied East Jerusalem
Stephanie Dean and step we've been here
so many times before with Anthony
Lincoln turning up and visiting uh
senior figures in Tel Aviv and in in
Jerusalem as well uh what is the aim
this time does it do it make any
difference to what we have seen
before well the difference this time is
that the Rafa the Rafa offensive seems
to be imminent if this this deal doesn't
go ahead and this is why also you have
the Americans and also the Egyptians
putting incredible pressure on both
sides they don't want to see the Offa
offensive happen in the wide scale
ground offensive as it is planned um so
you have him really pushing for that but
interestingly the rhetoric that's been
coming from the Israeli Prime Minister
for the last couple of days and today
and the message to blinkin is that
basically there is not going to be an
end to the war and we know that this is
something that Hamas uh
is stuck to they say that there has to
be an end to the war in any agreement
before it releases any captives the
current deal on the table talks about a
sustained period of calm in the second
phase after a 40-day ceasefire but with
the message coming from the Prime
Minister talking also the fact that Rafa
is going to happen with or without a
deal uh certainly it's sending a message
and we're expecting to hear from Hamas
uh by the end of Wednesday by the end of
tonight a response to the deal that is
on the table it's sending a message that
a he has no intention of ending the war
and B Rafa is going to happen Deal or No
Deal uh so you know you start to
question what incentive Hamas will have
to agree to anything very complicated
negotiations we're going to have to wait
and see certainly what they're going to
respond and then go from there as we
were mentioning before Anthony blinkin
saying that this push for a deal is he
says achievable that he's told Netanyahu
that the US is still opposing a ground
offense of in Rafa as you've been
talking about just talk us through
briefly what the situation you alluded
to it just a moment ago just talk us
through what the the the logistics are
if you like about the ceasefire deal
that's going on at the
moment yes what's on the table at the
moment is uh initially a 40-day
ceasefire uh 33 captives will be
released these are captives that fall
under the humanitarian umbrella so uh
those over 50 years old women uh and
those that are injured um and sick in
response we understand uh up to 900
almost a thousand Palestinian prisoners
will be released also the Israeli Army
will remove itself somewhat from the
corridor that currently Cuts Gaza into
from the North and the South and there
should be the allowance of Palestinians
to return North to their homes once that
happens you will then have a period uh a
second phase of sustained calm so all of
that uh seems to quite clear but if you
look at the positions of both sides
which is one is saying only a deal if
there is an end to the war Hamas the
Israeli Prime Minister saying absolutely
no enter the war and Rafa with or
without a deal it seems very difficult
as to how this deal can be achieved the
way Anthony blinkin still is describing
it is as cautiously optimistic that
something is tangible at this point but
again what's different this time is that
if there is no deal the Israelis have
made it very clear Raa is going to
happen and it's going to happen very
soon Stephanie deer and occupied East
Jerusalem Stephanie thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz